Types of Hacker:

White   Focus on security and finding vulnerabilities of an organization.
Black   Focus on finding vulnerabilities and exploit them and tend to do damage to an organization.
Grey    Grey hackers works sometime like White and Black hackers according to situation.

Vulnerability, Exploits, Payloads:

Vulnerability: The flaw or misconfiguration of a software.
Exploits:      The way hacker takes advantage of vulnerability.
Payload:       After exploit the system, hacker gets access to the terminal or command line of that system and control it.

Red Blue Teaming:

Red Team: They mainly focus on offensive pentesting and try to hack into as many systems as possible with the permission of organization.
Blue Team: They focuses on improving security by patching vulnerabilities, updating software and make sure that security mechanisms were implemented and fuctioning correctly.

Privileges and Escalation:

Privileges: Means certain permission of user on certain files and folder.
Escalating: Those permission to root or Administrator user.

Denial of Service:

DoS: Sending huge number of packets from one system to anothe computer is called DoS.
DDoS: Distributed Denial of Service if the attack is perform by many computers.

Buffer Overflow Attack:

Buffer Overflow Attack: Whenever the application doesnot hangle input data correctly, data may overflow into memory regions like stack and application gets crashed.
                        Attackers can control instruction pointer and runs their own code.

Virus, Worm, Ransomeware:

Virus: It grows itself or it effects only one computer that is running on one system.
Worm:  It infects all the computers running on the same network.
Ransomeware: It encrypts all the files and folders and user have to pay to recover them.

CRYPTOGRAPHY:

Cryptography: Is art of of converting the plain text into unintelligible format(cipher text).
              On the receiver side that cipher text is converted into plain text.
              Cryptography mainly aims at privacy and integrity.
              Cryptography is not latest technique, its from thousands of years ago but they uses some symbols to denote plain text message.

PASSIVE RECONAISSANCE:

Passive Reconaissance: Just collecting information passively without interacting directly.

HAVE I BEEN PWNED:

https://haveibeenpwned.com/ to check data breaches 